Small blog post on using grouping for result diversification (#122)
vespa-engine/blog: _posts/2021-11-11-result-diversification-with-vespa.md

on the number of groups or hits, 
the grouping API offers
[pagination](https://docs.vespa.ai/en/grouping.html#pagination) support
using continuation tokens. The support for per group pagination enables building
rich search result carousels. 

# Controlling group ordering 
The default
[ordering](https://docs.vespa.ai/en/grouping.html#ordering-and-limiting-groups)
of groups is, 
as mentioned, the maximum relevance score of
hits in the group. 
<pre>
all(group(category) order(-max(relevance())) max(10) each(max(1)
each(output(summary(short)))))
</pre>

Is the equivalent of 
<pre>
all(group(category) max(10) each(max(1) each(output(summary(short)))))
</pre>

The <em>-</em> in front of the max specifies the sorting order, - is descending,
which we
want (high relevancy score is better). 

It is possible to order groups by more complex expressions working on
aggregates like <em>sum()</em> and <em>count()</em>, for example:
- Number of hits in the group times the maximum relevance:
<em>order(-max(relevance())*count())</em> 
- The sum of a document ctr attribute for the hits in the group times the
  maximum
relevance: <em>order(-max(relevance())*sum(ctr))</em>

> # Fine-tuning result diversification 

Reviewer: As the blog post is about diversification, we should add a few more details here, like a more real-world example with some pseudo-code

The grouped result computed in parallel over all cluster content nodes can be
post-processed in a [stateless
searcher](https://docs.vespa.ai/en/searcher-development.html). 
Then, the developer can further
diversify the result using custom business logic and finally present the
diversified results.  For example, when ordering groups by the max relevancy and
emitting more than one document per group, it
makes sense to check the relevance of the secondary hits from the group.
The searcher can also build and process the grouping request and response, see

> [Searcher grouping api](https://docs.vespa.ai/en/grouping.html#search-container-api) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Searcher grouping api](https://docs.vespa.ai/en/grouping.html#search-container-api).
```

# Serving performance  
Four main components drive serving performance when the query request includes
result grouping. In order of importance:

- The number of matches the query produces per node. All the document matches
  get
exposed to the grouping framework. The total result hit count of the query is
equal to the number of hits exposed to grouping. 

> - The total number of unique values the field can take. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The total number of unique values in the field. 
```

expose fewer documents
to the ranking phases and the grouping framework. Thus, reducing the number of
hits can improve the performance significantly and also, in a way, enhance the
quality of the groups as low-scoring documents get excluded from the result
grouping. The downside is that aggregate statistics like count(), sum(), etc.
become inaccurate. 
The grouping language also allows limiting the number of hits that get grouped.
For example, to limit the number of hits per node, use an 
<pre>
all(max(K) all(group(category) .... ))
</pre>

In this expression, <em>K</em> is the maximum number of hits per
node that grouping runs over. 

It's also possible to limit the number of documents exposed to grouping by using 
the [match-phase
degradation](https://docs.vespa.ai/en/graceful-degradation.html#match-phase-degradation)
feature, which sets an upper limit on the number of documents ranked
, using a document attribute. This feature also includes diversity criteria
so that the results exposed to grouping also are diversified.

The number of unique values the field can take is data-dependent. A few ten
thousand unique values is usually a breeze. The number of nodes in the cluster

> to which the query is fan out increases network bandwidth. The performance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to which the query is fanned out increases network bandwidth. The performance
```

or sum() is more resource-intensive than using the default max relevance order. 
- Finally, the number of nodes involved in the query. 

The query selection logic controls the number of <em>matches</em>. 
Therefore, efficient
retrievers like [weakAnd/wand](https://docs.vespa.ai/en/using-wand-with-vespa.html)
or [approximate nearest neighbor
search](https://docs.vespa.ai/en/approximate-nn-hnsw.html) expose
expose fewer matches to configurable ranking and grouping.
Thus, reducing the number of matches can improve the serving performance significantly and
also,enhance the quality of the groups as low-scoring documents are excluded from the
result grouping. 
The grouping language also allows limiting the number of <em>matches</em> that are grouped.
For example, to limit the number of <em>matches</em> per node, use an 
<pre>
all(max(K) all(group(category) .... ))
</pre>

In this expression, <em>K</em> is the maximum number of matches per
node that grouping runs over. 

It's also possible to limit the number of <em>matches</em> exposed to grouping by using 
the [match-phase
degradation](https://docs.vespa.ai/en/graceful-degradation.html#match-phase-degradation)

> feature, which sets an upper limit on the number of documents ranked
> , using a document side quality attribute. The match phase degradation feature supports diversity criteria

Reviewer: ```suggestion
feature, which sets an upper limit on the number of documents ranked,
using a document side quality attribute. The match phase degradation feature supports diversity criteria
```
